XCDF: A Canonical and Structured Document Format 
lean-Luc Bloechle, Maurizio Rigamonti, Karim Hadjar, Denis Lalanne, and Rolf Ingold 
DIVA Group, DIUF University of Fdhourg,Parolles 2 -Bd de !Welles SO, 17W Fribourg, Switzerland Eirscname. lascnemenuni Er. ch 
Abstract. Accessing the structured content of PDF document a a difficult task, requiring preprocessing and reverse engineering techniques. In this paper, we first present different mereoris to accomplish this task, which are based either on document image anabsis. or on eleotrenic content extraction. Then, XCDF, canonical format with well-defined properties is proposed as a suitable solu-tion for representing structure] electronic documents and as an entry point for further researches and works. me system and methods used for reverse engi-neering PDF docum.t into this canonical format are also presented. We finally present current applications of this work into various domains, spacing from data mining to multimedia navigation, and consistently benefiting from our ca-nonical format in order to access PDF document content and structures. 
1 Introduction 
PDF (Portable Document Format [I]) is nowadays a standard format for exchanging documents through the Internet, thanks to its compactness and robust visualization functionalities. Despite these major capacities, PDF documents are difficult to index for information retrieval tasks because their content is most often disorganized due to optimization reasons, and, therefore, do not respects the reading order. Thus, existing indexing systems always need to preprocess the PDF documents in order to extract and structure the content [17, 4]. In fact, the format presents an important drawback: the documents are created by PDF producers, which I) privilege layout preservation in spite of physical and logical structures; 2) add a multitude of inconsistencies in the document, e.g. extra blank spaces, over-segmented words, etc. [25], 3) ere unable to generate a PDF document in a unique manner: for instance, a producer might consider a table as a graphic whereas another one could consider the same table as an image. These lacks imply that PDF efficiency inside the march-engines for information retrieval can be improved, but also that end users would not be able to copy-paste textual parts of a document from PDF viewers maintaining the reading order. Therefore 1) a reconstruction of homogeneous text entities (words, lines, and blocks) extracted from a PDF filetle and 2) a canonical format organizing the original content in respect of structures and annotations are required before any use of the original content. 
H. Bunke and A.L. Spitz DAS 2006, WKS 3872, pp. let-152,2005. Springer-Verlag in Heidelberg 2006 
