l
E
44 Chapter 2 The Role of ludicial Review Q
lu
H
J being considered. since they umy he xeptxrtatml tmm one uf their parents ztrulim uprooted I
l from their country of citizenslnip, where they have svttlcd and lmvc connections. I
Immigration mlicers who nmkc H Lt: LZ drxilsirms are prcwided with a set Mguidizlincs. ~l
; contained in ahapter 9 of the lrsmzégrezsimi Mramml; limmiemrim: am} Esglbrcwvtcnsr. The M
guidelines constitute imctrmrtirms to immigration nfliccrs about how to cxcreisc the dir
creticm delegated tu them, 'llwse guidelines are also available tn the public. A numlxcr of J1
statmcnts in the guidezlimres are relevant to Mas. Bakssfs application. Guideline *).05 em» A
phasizcs that oflicers ham: at duty to decide which causes should be given a famurable ze»:— h
1 cmmcndatiom by carefully considering, all anzpccts uf the case, using their best judgxrmnl 4
and asking tlmemsclvxzs what at reasonable pvrsnn would do in such il situation. It also {
l states that although ntliccrc; are not expactcd to “dclvs~: imo areas which an: nm presented l
l during cxaminatimt or intrsrvlvswsl tlwy should ztttempt in clarifk possible humanitarian
’ grounds and public policy cozmxidamtiuus raven if tlmeae are rmt well articulated?
The guidelines; also set out tht: lmswss upon which the discrstion conferred by s. ll4(2} {
and the Regulations slmuld be exercised. Two difllzrcnt types of criteria that uxaxy lead tm
a positive at l14(2) decision ars 0utlincd—publir; policy comidcratitsns amd humanilam |
ian amd compmmwionatc grounds. Immigration vilicert arc instmctecl. unclssr guideline l
I QI}?. to assure thcnzsclvczt, first, whether a public policy cnnsidcratinn is present, and if I
there is none, whether ltumamiturian and conipassirmxtte circunnsmncu exist. Public purl- I
l icy reasons include: nmrriagc to at Canadian resident, the fact that the person has lived in '
Canada, has become established, and ltas brzconw an `“ill•:gal tlc Facia r·:si¤:lentI` and the `
fact that the person may be u longterm lmldtsr at cmplmymunt nuthmizatiun or has
worked as :1 foreign dmmmticl Guidclim: Q1)? statin; that humanitarian and ccxmpetsxivm-
· ate gmunrls will exist if “unusu:1l. undezwrvvd ur disprrmgwtwrticntatc hardship would be  
caused to the person melting mmaiclcmtiun if he or she had to leave Canada? The guidv Q
limes also directly address situations imolving fzrniily de:pcm:l•mr:5; and enrphaaizc that Q
the requimmant that a persmi Imve Canada to apply Ham abroad muy result in hardship  
, for class: family membzrss of an Carmdimt msidcnt, whathisr parents, childnzn, ur others j
who are clcssc to the claimant, but not related by hluml. 'Ilmy note that in wah cases, the Z
reasons why the person did nut apply {mm abroad and the existance of thmily or other I
support in Lhc pazrsonk hams ctmuntry should also be cmmiclerecl. {
(I. Prn¢:¢d¤m1F¤£r¤¢z¤s  
I
The first ground upon which the appellant chullcrxgex the dessieximu made   Olliccr Cadim ll
is the allegation that she was rmt accorded prccediiral fairnesw. She suggcrts that tht- fwl~  
lowing procedures are required by the duty of fairness when parrzails have Canadian  
children and tlicy make an H & C application: an uml interview before the di2cisi·mt»  
maker; notice to her children and the utlwr parent uftlm inwrview, rt right fm- the <;hil»  
dren and the other parent to make suburissions at that interview, and notice tn the mlm ll
parent ofthe interview and of that parmnk right to have counsel present, She also allezges l`
that prtxcedmul fuirntess requires the provision of reasons by the dccisiun-ntakcr. Otlicer  
{laden, and that the mates 0f0Hicer 1.0:2:1: give rise to a reasonable appmhensiun uf bias <
In addressing the lairnesr issuer`, l will consider fmt the priuciplcr mlrzvunt tu the de-  
tcnulnaticn uf the ccmtmt of the duty tifpmcedurnl fairness, amd than addm Ms. Bukcrk  
+.7, lr rrr l J

